[Music]
hey guys today we're taking a look at
donnie darko a cult classic movie from
2001.
[Music]
enjoy
the movie opens with a boy mysteriously
passed out in the middle of the road
he awakens days and confused then gets
back on his bike and heads home
there's a message on the fridge waiting
for him where's donnie later in the
evening
him and his family have dinner donnie's
sister elizabeth talks about school
she's on the midst of being accepted
into harvard she really has her [ __ ]
together
unlike donnie donnie is quite hostile
making rude remarks towards both his
sisters
elizabeth becomes a bit aggravated and
donnie retorts that maybe she should be
the one in therapy instead of him
she counters passive aggressively asking
him why he hasn't been taking his
medication
apparently she wasn't supposed to know
that they proceed to flame profanities
at each other until their mother steps
in to break it up
after dinner donnie's mom enters his
room and asks him where he's been going
at night
donnie aggressively asks her to get out
and she asks what happened to her son
he calls her a [ __ ] as she walks off
she heads back to her room and her
husband consoles her
donnie takes his medication then goes to
sleep during the night
an ominous voice in donny's head awakens
his subconscious
he gets up and sleepwalks outside as the
voice draws him in closer and closer
a man in a demonic looking bunny costume
is seen in the distance
he tells them that the world is going to
end in 28 days 6 hours
42 minutes and 12 seconds donnie smirks
in disbelief
elizabeth arrives at the home at the
dead of night suddenly things start to
shake as the house seemingly breaks
apart
donnie's father awakens as elizabeth
cowers in fear the next morning
donnie is woken up by his two neighbors
he apologizes for passing out on their
golf course and heads home
he's greeted by the unpleasant side of
police and a ton of people at his house
they refuse to let him pass until he
firmly asserts that this is his home
he watches in awe as a jet engine is
hoisted out of his room
had he been there it would have
definitely spelled death for the
troubled team
the faa is there they've arranged a
hotel for the family while things are
taken care of
elizabeth smiles and tells donnie that
they have no idea where the engine
came from no plane was found back at the
hotel
donnie's parents reminisce about the
tragic death of one of their high school
classmates
they remarked somberly on the fact that
doni nearly shared the same fate
were treated to a little montage of high
school life before settling in with
donnie in class
his english teacher miss pomeroy
questions the class about a short story
called
the destructors dani chimes in and gives
an excellent answer
stating that destruction is a form of
creation suddenly a girl
gretchen enters the classroom she just
registered to the school
miss pomeroy playfully instructs her to
sit next to the boy she finds the cutest
of course it's donnie who's played by
jake gyllenhaal gretchen proudly claims
receipt from another girl
on the ride home from school donnie and
his father briefly discussed the plane
incident it remains a mystery where the
engine came from
donnie shouts and his dad abruptly stops
the car he nearly ran over an old woman
donnie steps out to check on her as she
inspects an empty mailbox
she whispers something too quiet for us
to hear to donny at therapy
donnie shares with his therapist dr
thurman that he made a new friend
an imaginary one named frank he tells
her that he told him the world was going
to end
but he doesn't believe it the next day
at school donnie zones out while
watching some goofy video about fear
from a local motivational speaker
frank begins to speak to him telling him
to pay close attention
later that night donnie has visions of
the future before awakening again in a
trance-like state
frank stands before him but says nothing
dunny grabs an axe and bludgeons a water
main
as frank watches from the shadows the
next morning donnie teases his little
sister while waiting for the bus
some other students run up alerting the
group that school was canceled today
there's been a flood i wonder who's
responsible we cut to the scene of the
crime
students are gossiping about what
happened and we see that an axe was left
embedded on a statue
accompanied by the words they made me do
it gretchen is seen being harassed by
two boys at another bus stop before
donnie steps in he lets them know that
school is canceled
and gretchen suggests that he walk her
home
donnie asked gretchen why she moved here
she explains that her parents had
not the best relationship well actually
her father stabbed her mother four times
in the chest
though she survived donnie awkwardly
shares some tidbits about his troubled
past as well he's got emotional problems
and even set an abandoned house on fire
which
landed him a small stent in jail before
they part ways donnie lets her know that
he's really glad that school was
canceled
because it led to them having this
conversation they're weird sorry
yeah that was a compliment donnie has
another therapy session
this time dr thurman decides to whip out
some hypnotherapy
things take a turn for the sexual as
donnie starts talking about his lewd
fantasies
i think about girls a lot fortunately dr
thurman awakens him from the trance with
a clap
ending the session the police are on the
lookout for the culprit of the recent
flood
having every student jot down they made
me do it on the board
donny's turn is up and they flag him as
a suspect he's later cornered in the
bathroom by one of his bullies
who claims donnie told the cops he did
it things escalate as the bully holds a
knife to donny's throat
thankfully he gets off easy donnie and
the boys are seen cracking open a couple
cold ones and arguing about the sexual
dynamics of smurfs
no i'm not making a joke their thrilling
conversation is cut short by the sight
of the old woman from earlier
almost getting run over they call her
grandma death she's seen walking back
and forth endlessly checking her mailbox
an emergency pta meeting is held miss
farmer is convinced that the cause of
the incident can be tied back to the
influence of the short story the
destructors
she berates miss pomeroy and basically
makes a fool of herself
meanwhile donnie darko is tripping balls
he speaks with frank and tries to reach
out to him
but a field materializes stopping him
dead in his tracks
frank explains that he can do anything
and so can donnie he warns him that
everyone is in danger
dany asks where he came from and frank
responds do you believe in time
travel samantha walks in asking donnie
who he's talking to
during english class donnie shares a
poem he wrote that includes frank
miss pomeroy inquires who frank is and
donnie shares that he's a six foot tall
bunny rabbit
later donnie must sit through another
goofy motivational video about fear and
love
miss farmer's class is tasked with an
exercise in which they get up
read a scenario and then place it on the
graph somewhere between the extremes of
fear and love
donnie staunchly rejects his concept
stating that life is not so black and
white
and that there's a whole spectrum of
human emotion being unaccounted for
his insubordination is punished during a
parent-teacher conference
ms farmer shares with us the horde
profanities that came out of donny's
mouth
he asked me to forcibly insert the
lifeline exercise cart into my anus
afterwards this farmer questions
donnie's mother about her aptitude as a
parent
and prays that her son does not fall
into the path of fear thankfully
donnie has some chill parents and they
buy him a bunch of stuff as a reward for
sticking up to that kooky teacher
it's october 10th and only 20 days
remain until the end of the world
donnie walks up to his science teacher
dr monitov and inquires about time
travel
he enthusiastically opens up about
wormholes explaining that one could
theoretically take a bridge through time
before wrapping things up dr monotov
shares a secret little treat with donnie
he gives him a book
the philosophy of time travel written by
one of the old science teachers at the
school
she used to be a nun and then one day
suddenly rejected the church in favor of
science
donny examines the cover and notices
with shock that the author is roberta
sparrow
roberta sparrow is none other than
grandma death
we cut to a graphic of the book chapter
one the tangent universe
incidents when the fabric of the fourth
dimension become corrupted are
incredibly rare
if a tangent universe occurs it will be
highly unstable sustaining
life for no longer than several weeks
eventually it will collapse upon itself
forming a black hole within the primary
universe capable of destroying
all existence at dinner donnie shares
the book with his family
his parents mentioned that roberta is
quite loaded and used to be known
for her gem collection kids used to go
up to her house to try and rob her
and she became a total recluse at his
next therapy session donnie shares with
dr thurman while roberta whispered into
his ear earlier
she said that every living creature on
earth dies alone donnie sits with his
father and some friends as they watch
football
he's looking a little loopy he looks at
his father and notices an amorphous
water-like blob extending out from his
chest
he draws out a path towards the kitchen
and within moments his father
follows said path a blob begins to form
in doni's chest
leading upstairs he's compelled to
follow it entering his father's room and
discovering a gun
a mere 12 days remain we learn a little
bit more about time travel as chapter 2
water and metal flashes on the screen
water and metal are the key elements of
time travel
water is the barrier element for the
construction of time portals used as
gateways between universes at the
tangent vortex
whatever that means donnie is seen
carving pumpkins with elizabeth
he's carved frank's face onto his
pumpkin with elizabeth remarking that
it's scary
donnie doesn't seem to agree donnie's
parents meet with dr thurman
in her professional opinion donnie is
suffering from paranoid schizophrenia
and is experiencing daylight
hallucinations she recommends they up
his medication
and do more hypnotherapy while at the
arcade with gretchen
donny talks to her about his
sleepwalking episodes while chapter 7
flashes across the screen
the manipulated living they assist the
living receiver in returning the
artifact to the primary universe
the manipulated living will do anything
to save themselves from oblivion
jim cunningham the local motivational
speaker hosts a seminar at the school he
takes questions from students and spews
generic bs
answers about fear and self-love donnie
takes the mic and asks him how much he's
being paid to be here
basically calling him out for being a
charlatan donnie's escorted out as the
crown of students fervently applaud him
afterwards donnie talks with gretchen
about grandma death and her book
the philosophy of time travel he reveals
that he's been having disturbing visions
that are accurately detailed in the book
they pay a visit to her house but no one
opens the door they inspect her mailbox
but spot her watching over them
frank's voice enters donny's mind
telling him to send her a letter
we see an overlay of chapter four the
artifact and the living
while the jet engine from earlier is
shown in the background artifacts
provide the first sign that a tangent
universe has occurred
these artifacts are formed from metal
miss pomeroy introduces a new book to
the class
watershed down she walks by donny and
whispers in his ear
maybe you and frank can read this one
together chapter six appears
the living receiver the living receiver
is chosen to guide the artifact into
position for its journey back to the
primary universe
they are often blessed with powers such
as increased strength and telekinesis
they are often tormented by terrifying
visions and hallucinations
sounds familiar donnie is walking home
from class when he spots a wallet on the
ground
it's jim's frank's voice chimes in i
know where he lives
sometime later donnie and gretchen are
giving a presentation in class when the
two bullies bring up the stabbing of
gretchen's mother
she runs off after class and donnie
chases her she stops
turns around and lunges in for a kiss
how romantic
they go to watch a movie and frank
appears as gretchen sleeps
donnie asks him why he wears that stupid
bunny suit and frank counters
why are you wearing that stupid man's
suit he does have a point
donnie asked him to reveal himself and
he does frank is just an ordinary guy
well aside from that gaping island he
instructs donnie to watch the movie
screen as an opening emerges
franklin tells him to burn it down donny
cloaks himself in his hoodie before
walking off
leaving gretchen he dons a mischievous
expression before heading out
meanwhile a talent show is taking place
with donny's little sister samantha
leading a dance group miss farmer gives
them some words of encouragement before
they perform
if you feel the need to vomit up there
just swallow it back on donny's end of
things we see him dousing a house with
gasoline
before setting it ablaze after the job
is done he returns back to the movie
theater and makes out with gretchen
chapter 10 flashes on the screen the
manipulated dead
we cut to a brief scene of donnie and
gretchen awakening from slumber outside
jim cunningham's burnt to a crisp house
is all over the news
turns out that sleazy motivational
speaker was harboring a secret dungeon
filled with child pornography the
firefighters discovered this while
putting out the flames
miss pomeroy is fired and is set to
leave at the end of the week the girls
dance group wins an invitation to a show
in l.a
and donnie's father is away for business
setting the stage for the movie's final
act
miss farmer a big fan of jim's is
convinced the allegations are false
she believes there must be some
conspiracy and wishes to testify in his
defense
she asked donnie's mother to take her
place of chaperone for the la trip
before departing donny's mom checks in
on him but first stumbles upon a
disturbing drawing of frank in his room
she tells him she'll be leaving and that
elizabeth is in charge if he needs
anything he should call dr thurman
donnie asked her what it's like to have
a wacko for her son with teary eyes
she tells him it's wonderful and
comforts him we see donnie handling a
letter for roberta sparrow and then cut
to donnie's mother and sister departing
before they head out to the airport
donnie wishes his mother and little
sister farewell
he later visits miss pomeroy after
school he sees her packing away her
things and is dismayed to learn that
she's been fired
he remarks that she was the only good
teacher at the school before she departs
donnie asked her why she left cellar
door written on the board
she says a famous linguist once said it
was the most beautiful combination of
words in the english language
elizabeth receives her acceptance letter
to harvard and doni suggests that they
throw a halloween party to commemorate
she agrees chapter 9 flashes on the
screen insurance trap
the manipulated dead will set an
insurance trap the living receiver must
ensure the fate of all mankind
gretchen arrives to the party but is
worried about her mother who's gone
missing
donnie takes her upstairs and they fool
around to take their minds off things
only six hours remain donny is seen
going loopy as a time channel emerges
from his chest
it leads him to the fridge which has a
message that reads frank was here
went to get beer he tells gretchen and
his two other friends that time is
running out and they have to come with
him
they ride out on their bikes to roberto
sparrow's house he sees a
seller door him and grant should enter
she messes around on the piano inside
before two people in mass grab them from
behind and drag them outside
it's the two bullies that have been
tormenting them since the beginning they
were trying to rob the place
a car is spotted driving up and the kids
disperse thinking it's the cops
donnie and gretchen are left behind in
the dirt as the car closes in
it swerves erratically to avoid roberta
who is standing in the middle of the
road
reading donnie's letter gretchen screams
out for donnie before her fate is sealed
the car runs her over dany stumbles to
gretchen's body
she's lifeless a man in a costume steps
outside of the car
and looms behind them he's holding a
bunny mask frank looks on with sorrow
and confusion
donnie stares him down and shoots him
leaving a gaping wound in his right eye
roberta lurches up to donny and tells
him a storm is coming he takes
gretchen's body with him and drives off
to get closer to the newly formed vortex
he watches on and laughs at the
absurdity of his situation
a plane flies over the vortex it's his
mother and sister's returning flight
donnie uses his telekinetic powers to
rip off the jet engine
which is the artifact and then sends it
through the time portal back to the
primary universe
he gets back in the car and smiles at
gretchen's dead body knowing that
everything's going to be okay
the last 20 days rewind and donny is
back in his bed he laughs about what he
thinks was a ludicrous dream then goes
back to sleep
the jet engine crashes in his room
killing him chapter 12 flashes on the
screen
dreams when the manipulated awakened
from their journey into the tangent
universe
they are often haunted by the experience
in their dreams we see a montage of the
different characters waking up with
feelings of regret
confusion and sadness the aftermath of
the accident is a scene of sorrow
as dany's family weeps gretchen rides up
on her bike
and asks what happened she locks eyes
with donnie's mother and they share a
wave
i don't know about you guys but that one
made me shed a tear